so WWDC happened and Apple has blessed
us with yet another one of their brand
new inventions Ai and by AI we mean
Apple intelligence because in classic
apple fashion they just will not use a
pre-existing Tech term one that's been
out for decades they take artificial
intelligence tweak it and repackage it
to us as Apple intelligence but I would
say that this time around they actually
have something that's pretty unique I
think that this product is arguably the
best consumer AI we've seen on the
market and I would also go as far as to
say that I don't think other companies
can easily pull off something quite like
this so the first question you might
have is what is Apple intelligence and I
guess the best way to describe it is
it's an AI system that lives on any kind
of computing product from Apple a new
Computing product from Apple so an
iPhone a tablet a Mac and the purpose of
this AI system is just there to elevate
the whole user experience when it comes
to Communications and work and there are
three main areas that they're
integrating this apple intelligence the
first is with text so the generation and
understanding of text the second is with
image generation and then the third is
with Siri it's been a completely
overhauled system badly needed uh and
Siri is now at the point where I used to
think it was like the worst digital
assistant on the planet and now it's
probably going to be the best okay let's
start off with that first one text so
with apple intelligence your devices can
look at text and it can proofread it
rewrite it or summarize it and it can
obviously work with first-party apps
like mail or notes but also works with
third party apps and this can be super
useful like you can imagine like proof
reading something for spelling or
grammar and they have examples of
rewriting paragraphs in a different tone
or like as a poem and they also had
examples where they summarized big walls
of text into something more concise but
none of this is like groundbreaking
Innovation right we've seen most of this
kind of tech before but you'll see in a
second all of this ties into a much
larger picture uh now the second thing
that they showcased was image generation
now they've broken it into like two
components the first is Gen emojis the
second is image playground so first gen
emojis it's their generated emojis they
basically use these text prompts and
profile photos if you want to be able to
create these personalized emojis and you
can use them in messages or stickers and
reactions and they look fun like they're
a little cheesy but I think my kids my
family they're just going to love these
things and it's very on brand for Apple
like the idea of using generative AI to
create these custom emojis it's perfect
for the brand uh now the second thing is
a little bit more interesting to me so
it's image generation that they call
Image playground and the idea here is
that users are able to create images
from scratch and you only get a few art
styles to choose from uh you can use
existing photos to help with the text
prompt but it's all done on device all
of that generative AI is just happening
right on the chip of whatever phone
tablet or computer that you're using and
you can use these generated images in
messages to send to people or you can
use it in your workflow so if you have a
project that you're working on or some
kind of document that you're working
with you can pull up the the image
playground tool and it'll contextually
identify the words around the area that
you're working on and create an image
for you based on that context now some
of the image playground demos they did
didn't look great to me like they had an
example of someone sending a birthday
wish with one of these generated images
and it just felt really gross to me like
the image itself seemed dated as if it
came from a really old iteration of this
kind of tech uh it just looks not great
but also the idea of getting one of
these low effort images as a birthday
wish I don't know it just feels like
this
would get stale very quickly if people
use it too much uh but if you'll notice
the images that were produced with this
image playground none of them were
really photo realistic like if you
compared to something that mid Journey
would generate these Apple intelligence
photos seem much more playful but also
just lower quality I think part of it is
that Apple doesn't want photo realism
here I think they wanted something
that's meant to be more playful and fun
almost like a toy but I also don't think
that the hardware if they're doing this
all on device I don't think the hardware
could even handle that right now uh now
the Third Way that they've integrated
Apple intelligence into this whole Apple
ecosystem is with Siri so this new Siri
runs an llm that is local on device and
it can now perform actions based on
context from emails and messages like it
can add an event into a calendar or it
can make reservations or it can give you
information about an appointment or
flight that you had booked like you
could take a conversation that you had
previously and then reference it with
some data from the maps app or like the
photos app and then it can draw a
conclusion and then act on that
conclusion it can perform an action
based on all of that context it is so
much better than anything we've seen
before from Siri and this is I think the
way that we've imagined AI assistance to
be like this weirdly intelligent tool
now the way that it works is that right
now Siri will try to perform all of
these requests on device like if you ask
it to do something it'll do its best to
handle it locally on device but you're
going to run into limitations these are
llms you're dealing with right large
language models keyword being large and
on a device with 8 gigs of RAM it can
only be so large before it doesn't even
run on these systems that is the cuto by
the way these systems need 8 gigs of RAM
to to pull off Apple intelligence right
now so if the system thinks that a
particular request is too complex to
handle on device it will send that
request out to the cloud where there are
servers with much stronger compute power
and then it'll send the result back to
the phone but the third variant is that
if Siri thinks that the question is
better suited to chat GPT like if you're
asking it a more generative question or
a more creative question like the
example they gave was like if you have a
bunch of ingredients you know you got
this fish and this vegetable and you
want a recipe for it chat gbt is really
good at that type of stuff so it will
then prompt you and say hey chat GPT is
really good for this type of question do
you mind if we send it over to them and
if you want to you can get chat GPT to
handle that request and it'll send you
that answer now as I was watching the
keynote I was obviously impressed with
what they're showcasing with apple
intelligence but there's another part of
me that realized the best version of
this consumer AI type product is going
to come from a company that has full
access to your digital life like your
emails and your messages like and so I
think the only companies I could pull
off a product like this are going to be
maybe Microsoft but Google and apple and
I would say that Microsoft doesn't have
a real shot here to to be that like
all-encompassing product because they
don't make phones anymore and and I
think if you're going to create a
product like this it has to be on a
phone you know what I'm saying like it
has to be such a pervasive and and
ubiquitous part of society that if you
don't have a phone you can't be the
company that just Nails it okay so I
would say Microsoft is out but then if
you look at Google I mean they have
access to the most phones right they
have a huge product stack with all the
Gmail and Google Docs everybody uses
that stuff it's awesome but could they
pull it off could they create an llm
that ties in their whole product stack I
think they could but the biggest thing
is privacy because we're not dealing
with like regular your browsing habits
here you're dealing with like the again
the best version of companion AI like
this is something that has access to the
your most personal stuff and to entrust
Google with
it that's that's something I think a lot
of people would be uncomfortable with
because it's Google and they are
absolutely in the business of using your
data data now some people just don't
care about this stuff that's fine but I
think a lot of people would be concerned
if they knew that Apple or Google or
Microsoft was just slurping up your user
data while you were using their AI tools
now the way that Apple has approached
this whole thing about privacy is pretty
unique it's I think the biggest
differentiating factor from what Apple
intelligence is compar to anything else
we've seen on the market before okay so
Apple has usually has had a pretty good
stance about privacy they do their best
to try to keep uh user data
and personal information private they
they seem to at least now when it comes
to AI of this caliber like contextual AI
you need some pretty sensitive
information or it could be sensitive
right you're dealing with emails you're
dealing with messages that are like
those are your messages and to send it
out to the
cloud there's a concern because remember
like I showed before when Apple
intelligence thinks a request is too
complex to handle on device it sends it
to the cloud and that's when you have
the risk of privacy loss now the way
that Apple has done this is really
interesting they are so hardcore about
this whole privacy thing when it comes
to this type of data they built their
own secure data centers for this Cloud
element of Apple intelligence and they
call it private Cloud compute uh their
process seems super hardcore like even
when the server Hardware is being made
they take these highes photos and then
at the data centers it gets validated by
a third party before they actually put
the hardware in and then seal it up and
there's like a crazy number of steps
they're doing to ensure that the data
that gets sent to the cloud stays secure
and also once that request has been
fulfilled they say that they they nuke
the data completely and nothing gets
retained now I don't know how much of
this is you know for fact these are very
big claims that they're making but it's
also seemingly auditable like the softw
that they using is publicly auditable
it's impressive stuff and then the other
thoughts that come into my mind are like
I cannot imagine Microsoft and or Google
doing something like this like I feel
like the the whole context of privacy
and and securing user data and personal
information and like keeping it like
there's no way I feel like they just
they just don't care enough about that
stuff as companies to put in the
resources that this required from Apple
intelligence uh okay there you have it I
think that this product from Apple their
uh consumer AI product is by far the
best one on the market not because of
its like topend capabilities it's it is
somewhat limited but it's just how they
integrated all this stuff into their
Hardware into this bizarrely tight
uncomfortably tight ecosystem it just
works so well for this type of product
okay there you have it those are my
thoughts on Apple intelligence